Compiling QRT using Microsoft C 5.1 under OS/2 and MS-DOS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The enclosed file OS2F_QRT.EXE is an OS/2 Family Application version of
the QRT program.  This means the program was compiled so it would run
under both OS/2 and MS-DOS.   It works on all 80x86 processors and also
takes advantage of the 80x87 math coprocessor if it is available, and
emulates it if not. This document describes what has to be done to
compile the program using MSC version 5.1.

NOTE: I did not have the source code for the QRT2GIF program, so it has
NOT been converted.  You must still run this program under MS-DOS.

The QRT program works very well in the background under OS/2.  For
example, you can enter the command:

  DETACH QRT -xres 320 -yres 200 -aspect 1.3 < filename

My IBM PS/2 model 60 with an 80287 processor calculated the TABLE image
at this resolution in one hour, thirty seven minutes using this command.
(with all other tasks shut down in OS/2).

NOTICE: 
The enclosed QRT source code was not modified by me in any way.
Instead, I am including this set of instructions that tell how to
modify the official source code.  I do not believe in modifying
someones work and then distributing it without the permission of the
author.


1) File Names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  The first problem encountered was the file names.  Some of the file
names were too long for MS-DOS's limitations of 8 characters in front
of the decimal and 3 characters after the decimal.  Some of the files
had to be renamed to fit the MS-DOS format.

2) The Makefile
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  I modified the existing unix makefile and created the MSC makefile. 
There was a strange bug in the make program in that it wouldn't find
one file (intersect.c) even after I renamed it intersec.c to fit in the
MS-DOS file name limitations. I found if I manually compiled this file
and then ran make, everything worked ok.

  Basically all I did to the unix makefile was rename the files to
MS-DOS compatible file names and add the MSC compiler options to link
in the large memory model and set the stack to E000h (I just picked a
large number when I got a stack error, it may be a way too large but it
works).  I also changed the name of the object files from "*.o" to
"*.obj" to match the MSC naming convention. This file is included as
MAKEFILE.MSC in this package.  


3) The source code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  The program SHOULD compile with no problems under MSC 5.1.
Unfortunately, a bug in the MSC 5.1 compiler forced me to change one
line in the file PATTERN.C.  The file MSC_PATT.C in this package is a
replacement for the PATTERN.C file in the official distribution.


4) Binding the program
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
After compiling the program (under OS/2) I ran the BIND program to turn
it into a family application that will run under both OS/2 and MS-DOS. 


5) More Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For more information on the OS/2 (MSC) port, you can contact me at:

Kevin Lowey
Fidonet:   1:140/43
Bitnet:    Lowey@Sask.Bitnet
UUCP:      lowey@dvinci.uucp
Internet:  Lowey@SASK.USask.CA 
